\section{Planning}

\subsection{Design}

The planner makes its decision based on the world state passed to it. By default, it makes a decision every second. However, this delay may be changed based on the last executed action. Some actions, such as \emph{turning}, require less time than one second. Other actions, however, such as \emph{moving} and \emph{closing grabbers} require significantly more time.


The planner uses a system of goals and actions. \emph{Goals} define an overall strategy in a given situation leading to a particular aim. Goals are composed of a sequence of actions. In each step, the planner selects an appropriate action to achieve its aim by traversing a list of actions in the currently selected goal. This selection is done by evaluating their preconditions. In general, goals are very abstract and do not change as often as actions.

\emph{Actions} define usually one instruction given to the robot with preconditions for its execution. As already mentioned, an action can also return a specific delay time to postpone or speed up next planner execution.



\begin{figure}[H]
	\begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=1.0\linewidth]{res/goalandactions.png}
    \caption{The overall planner structure. The planner consists of multiple goals. Each goal has a list of actions which contain two elements - preconditions and a method to execute.}
    \label{fig:goalsandactionsstructure}
	\end{center}
\end{figure}

Figure \ref{fig:goalsandactionsstructure} shows the overall design of the planner. Some examples of goals are documented in appendix D.



\subsection{Goal selection}

The process of selecting a new goal follows a procedure described in Figure
\ref{fig:goalpicker}. In every step of the planner, the current world state is
processed and resulting goal is generated based on this analyses. There are
three main conditions that effect this decision.


\begin{figure}[H]
	\begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.60\linewidth]{res/goalpicker.png}
    \caption{A flowchart showing all main conditions effecting planner's decision to select a goal in each step.}
    \label{fig:goalpicker}
	\end{center}
\end{figure}

\pagebreak

First of all, if our robot captures the ball, it will try to pass the ball to a
teammate robot. If the ball is not in our robot's possession, then the planner
has to strategically decide where to go based on the ball's position and the
position of all other robots. If our robot could approach the ball faster than
all other robots (our attacker included), then it would attempt to grab the
ball. Otherwise, it would switch to \emph{Defend} goal and start defending our
goal area. This involves returning to our defensive zone. If Tractor Crab
decides to grab the ball and the situation changes so that any other robot is
closer than ours, the planner immediately changes the goal to defend. Also, if
the ball is heading towards our goal and there is a high chance of scoring, the
planner would choose to defend over trying to catch the ball. Finally, one
special condition was added. If the ball is too close to our goal, Tractor
Crab's goal changes to \emph{Idle}. The reasoning behind this is that it is
very unlikely that the robot will grab the ball safely. In other words, it is
very likely that we will score on ourselves, and thus, it is preferable to do
nothing.

\subsection{Goals}


\subsubsection{Grab Ball}

\emph{Grab ball} is one of the principal goals in the planner. Its main purpose
is to move to the best position for grabbing the ball and eventually grab the
ball. Since the robot can only move sideways, the task is not trivial. Figure \ref{fig:sidewaysgrabball} depicts how this was done.

The naive way of grabbing the ball would be to approach the ball, spin it so
that the robot faces the ball, and grab it. However, this approach faces a
substantial shortage of hitting the ball while spinning close-by. Thus, it
needs to rotate first and then approach the ball. First, the planner finds
points suitable for grabbing the ball, assuming that a robot placed on a point
is facing the ball. There are usually two appropriate points -
\emph{catch-points}. 


One of the advantages of sideways movement is that neither side has priority
and thus both sides can be used for any kind of task. As long as the robot
faces the ball, it can move in both directions. Thus, there are 4 possible
rotations - one for each catch-point and for each movement direction.
Certainly, only two of these rotations lead to a situation when the robot faces
the ball. Out of these, the planner picks the one that requires the smaller
angle of rotation. Once the planner knows the catch-point and the corresponding
rotation, it can approach the ball. This process is shown in Figure
\ref{fig:sidewaysgrabballangle}. Figure \ref{fig:sidewaysgrabballdone} shows
the situation when the robot is in front of the ball and is ready to grab it.


\begin{figure}[H]
	\begin{center}
	\begin{subfigure}{0.5\textwidth}
  		\includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]{res/sidewaysgrabballangle.png}
  		\caption{Planner finds two catch-points P1 and P2. For each point, there is a corresponding angle $\phi$, which represents the rotation for approaching a point.}
  		\label{fig:sidewaysgrabballangle}
	\end{subfigure}%
	\begin{subfigure}{0.5\textwidth}
  		\includegraphics[width=1.0\textwidth]{res/sidewaysgrabballdone.png}
  		\caption{Catch-point P2 was selected, the robot rotated and moved so that it stands on P2 now. The next action would be to grab the ball. }
  		\label{fig:sidewaysgrabballdone}
	\end{subfigure}%
	
	\caption{Two charts representing the ball-catching algorithm. }
	\label{fig:sidewaysgrabball}
	\end{center}
\end{figure}


Two obstacles had to be overcame in development. Those were mostly caused by
vision inaccuracies and dynamic environment. Firstly, Tractor Crab can
overshoot in movement and miss the catch point. If this happens, it does not
recompute a new catch-point. Instead, it tries to move back towards the current
catch-point. Secondly, Tractor Crab can overshot in rotation. Since rotation
angle is crucial for successful movement towards a catch-point, the only
possible solution is to repeat the rotation again. However, this can lead to
situations when the robot keeps rotating there and back. Since such behavior is
undesirable, a \emph{dynamic threshold} is used. As long as the robot is within
an accepted error, the rotation is accepted. Also, the threshold value
increases after every successive unsuccessful rotation. This approach
represents a trade-off between accuracy and speed. It is better to make a
decision fast, even if it is not optimal, because the environment constantly
changes. A found solution can be outdated if the decision/adjusting process
takes too long.

\subsubsection{Defend}

The primary role of \emph{Defend} goal is to prevent the opposing team from successfully moving the ball over the defended goal-line. This is accomplished by the robot's moving into the path of the ball and either catching it or directing it away from the vicinity of the goal line. To improve chances of catching the ball, Tractor Crab using \emph{Defend goal} is always trying to predict the ball's trajectory and stand at the most suitable defending spot. This spot, also called a defending point, is calculated as an intersection of  a predicted ball's trajectory and a semi-circle surrounding the goal area. Such point is shown in Figure \ref{fig:defendingpoint}.

\begin{figure}[H]
	\begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.5\linewidth]{res/defending.png}
    \caption{A football pitch with a robot using \emph{Defend} goal. The blue line represents a defending semi-circle. The red line shows an expected ball trajectory. Point D represents \emph{Defending point} - the intersection of these lines.}
    \label{fig:defendingpoint}
	\end{center}
\end{figure}

Because of vision inconsistency on different parts of a pitch, the defending point is sometimes slightly off. Tractor Crab handles this problem by oscillating movement around the defending point. Since the robot is always moving from side to side, it covers more area and thus its chances to catch the moving ball are higher.

One minor improvement was implemented for situations when the robot is not close to the defending point and the ball is moving towards our goal. In this case, the robot immediately moves to the side of the ball and tries to direct it away.
