\documentclass[a4paper,12pt]{scrartcl}
\usepackage{tabularx}
\usepackage[pdfusetitle, hidelinks]{hyperref}
\newcommand{\shellcmd}[1]{\indent\indent\texttt{\footnotesize\$ #1}}
\author{Thomas Kerber, Marek Strelec, Euan Hunter}
\title{SDP User Guide}
\subtitle{Group 11}

\begin{document}
\maketitle

\input{setup}
\input{hardware}
\input{usage}

\section{Troubleshooting}

Below are the actions to take for various common problems which may occur. The
solutions are not guaranteed to work, but have in experience been effective.

\subsection{The Robot Doesn't Move}

If the robot is not moving, the first thing to do is to check the batteries.
Ensure that they are present, and charged. Further, confirm that the robot was
switched on. If the Arduino has a red light on, it is receiving power and the
issue is more likely to be one of communications. In this case switch the robot
off for a few seconds and turn it on again to reset the serial device.

\subsection{The Control Program Doesn't Start}

The control program not starting is likely due to the RF control signals
blocking. To test this, run the control program without the argument for the RF
stick. If it runs, then try waiting for five seconds, then re-running with the
normal arguments. If after a few attempts, this also does not work, then double
check the guard characters set on the RF stick. They should be three tilde
characters (`\verb$~~~$'). The proprietary CISCO tools located in the
`\texttt{/tools}' folder can be used to check this, and, if needed, to reset
them.

\subsection{The Vision is Misdetecting Objects}

The vision misdetecting objects is likely due to miscalibration. Close the
controller, restart and recalibrate. Take care to select a wide range of colour
samples, including the fringes of the circles to detect.

\subsection{The Robot is Very Slow}

The batteries are low. Recharge or replace them.

\subsection{The Vision is Solid Green}

The video input is set to draw from the wrong source. Close the control
program, and run `\texttt{xawtv}'. In the options, select svideo as the source.

\subsection{The Kicker Doesn't Work}

Double check the I/O port connections with the kicker. Try also listening at
the breadboard during a kick for an audible click. If this can be heard, the
issue is in the wiring from the batteries to the breadboard, or from this to
the kicker. If not, the issue is either the connectors being plugged into the
wrong I/O port (it should be the furthest inward on the I/O board), or a faulty
connection from the I/O port to the breadboard.

\end{document}
